The Products We Hope Will be in Kylie Jenner¡¯s 2016 Makeup Line

Kylie Jenner wearing True Brown K from her Lip Kit. (Photo: Lip Kit by Kylie)

Yesterday, 18-year-old Kylie Jenner casually and inconspicuously ¡ª for a Kardashian, at least ¡ª announced on her website that she wants to have a full makeup line in 2016. ¡°Next year I want to accomplish: A make-up line,¡± she wrote. The aspiring beauty mogul launched her $29 lip kit in November 2015, which sold out almost immediately and was selling for hundreds of dollars on eBay. Jenner understands the synergy of social media and beauty very well ¡ª she even found her 20-year-old makeup artist, Ariel Tejada, on Instagram. ¡°When Kylie DMed me and asked to work with me the next time I was in Los Angeles, I said I¡¯d happen to be there next week,¡± he told Yahoo Beauty in September. ¡°Mind you, I didn¡¯t even have a flight booked or anything.¡±

You don¡¯t say no to Jenner, and the reviews on her lip kit have been mixed. ¡°The lipliner is soft and glides on easily,¡± noted Refinery29. ¡°Love the color. It¡¯s super ¡®90s grunge, but the formula ¡­ not so much,¡± said Cosmopolitan. ¡°If you¡¯re not a lipstick girl, it¡¯s probably not the right color for you because it is pretty bold, but I had a lot of fun wearing it,¡± said Seventeen after trying the Candy K shade. But the appeal is obvious: out of all the Kardashians, the youngest Jenner switches up her beauty looks with the most frequency. She makes beauty experimentation look fun ¡ª and that sells.

Launching a full beauty line is not easily done in a year, especially for products like foundations, which have complicated formulations. Jenner could master a few color cosmetics within the next 12 months, though. These are six products that we hope she comes out with in the new year, based on Instagram.

Fake Spider Lashes

Jenner never leaves the house without theatrical top-and-bottom fake lashes, and one reason her selfies are so captivating is because of her spider lashes. Spider lashes created by mascara, however, tend to be clumpy, which is why celebrities prefer fake lashes to spruce up their eyes.

Contour Palette

A contour palette is a no-brainer, but this is also an opportunity for Jenner to explain how she does contouring for everyday beauty ¡ª a technique that baffles even well-versed beauty editors. In September 2015, she explained to ABC News that she used contouring to make her nose appear smaller.
