2015's Best Celebrity Hair Color Moments

Sunset hair, opal hair, unicorn hair: There is no shortage of hair-color trends out there right now. That¡¯s why we¡¯re taking a moment at the end of 2015 (yes, it¡¯s December, people) to chronicle celebs¡¯ best and brightest looks from the past year.

Whether you¡¯re searching for inspiration or just want to see some really rad color techniques, this slideshow has you covered. From singer Grimes¡¯ reverse-ombr¨¦ locks to Julianne Hough¡¯s girly pink bob, there¡¯s something for everyone. Prepare to bookmark this page and pin your heart out, but be warned: Spend too much time here, and you may get tempted to finally give these shades a go. 

Ahead, all the celeb inspiration you need for a rainbow of hair looks.


Busy Philipps
The actress¡¯ bright-blue, dip-dyed locks started out vibrant but have since faded beautifully ¡ª proving that colorful hair doesn¡¯t have to be a huge commitment.

Ava Elizabeth Phillippe
The daughter of Reese Witherspoon and Ryan Phillippe may be young (16!), but she understands the importance of picking a shade that flatters your complexion. Apparently, so does her colorist.

Kylie Jenner
The new queen of the lipstick game opted for green locks for the launch event of her new Lip Kit. Sure, it¡¯s a wig, but we¡¯re still into it.

Rihanna
RiRi never shies away from bold hair color; this year, she sported a rich, just-vibrant-enough-to-be-fake shade of red.

Lily Allen
Allen knows a thing or two about colorful hair (see examples here and here). Her latest shade of intense royal blue appeared on the red carpet for last month¡¯s British Fashion Awards.

Hillary Duff
Need more proof that your color can fade and still look good? Duff debuted teal hair this spring and let it naturally soften into the pale minty tint you see here.

Amber Rose
The model traded in her platinum hair for an electric shade of blue this spring ¡ª and even matched her nails to her new ¡®do.

Julianne Hough
While it was super short-lived, the candy-pink shade that hairstylist Riawna Capri created for Hough will live on as inspiration for blonde bobs everywhere.

Halsey
The singer is a color chameleon, to say the least, but we¡¯re the most into this soft wash of peachy pink. It¡¯s so subtle, you can barely tell ¡ª until you look closely.

Grimes
The pop singer is dedicated to the pink-hair lifestyle, but her latest look took it to another level: light pink that transforms into purple and black through the lengths.

Rita Ora
Ora¡¯s soft-pink hair is subtle compared with her wardrobe of wonderfully daring looks. But for most of us, this kind of change would make a massive statement.
