10 Hacks That Will Instantly Make Your Beauty Products Better

Coffee with milk. Pumpkin pie with whipped cream. French fries with ketchup. These combos are proof that great things can be even greater if you add a little something extra. This theory shouldn¡¯t be confined to the kitchen, though ¡ª it works in front of the mirror, too. 


Your favorite beauty products can stand alone, sure, but many of them could also benefit from an unexpected addition. Ahead, 10 ways to boost the goods you already own with items that are probably sitting in your medicine cabinet. Let¡¯s call them cosmetic condiments. Bon app¨¦tit!

View photos
Pump Up The Volume: Mousse + Gel
At first mention, both mousse and gel may conjure up images of a crunchy-haired Jessie Spano or your ¡®90s TV character of choice. But thanks to new and improved formulas, both products have undergone modern makeovers and will no longer leave you in Saved by the Bell territory. And, if you have limp strands or just want to up your volume, they¡¯ll work even better as a pair. Add a little (and by a little, we mean a pea-sized amount) gel to your mousse, and apply to your roots to achieve volume that will actually last all night.

Bumble and Bumble Thickening Full Form Mousse, $16, available at Sephora; Aussie Miraculously Smooth Tizz No Frizz Hair Gel, $3.43, available at Walmart.

View photos
Get Glowing: Moisturizer + Illuminator
You could apply each of these products on its own, but liquid illuminator can be a little tricky. If you have large pores, fine lines, or a breakout, its shimmering effect may do more harm than good ¡ª highlighting your problem areas rather than your cheekbones. For a more seamless dew and natural glow, we suggest mixing a drop or two of liquid illuminator into your moisturizer and applying evenly all over your face.

Olay Regenerist Advanced Anti-Aging Micro-Sculpting Cream Moisturizer, $19.19, available at Drugstore.com; Nyx Born To Glow Liquid Illuminator, $3.84, available at Target.


Banish Flakes: Conditioner + Almond Oil 
'Tis the season of many things worthy of celebrating, but dry scalp is not one of them. Unfortunately, during the winter months, it¡¯s par for the course for many of us. Before swapping your favorite shampoo for a medicinal anti-dandruff formula, try adding a couple drops of almond oil into your conditioner, rubbing it into your scalp, and leaving it in for a few minutes before you rinse. After a few washes, your scalp will be moisturized and flake-free.

Alterna Haircare Bamboo Abundant Volume Conditioner, $22, available at Sephora; Dr. Adorable Sweet Almond Oil, $13.04, available at Sears.

View photos
Strengthen Your Nails: Almond Oil + Lime
Speaking of winter ailments and almond oil: If you¡¯re looking to strengthen brittle nails and soften your cuticles, soaking your fingers in almond oil with a few squeezes of lime juice will do the trick. Let them sit for five minutes to get the maximum benefit. (And if you¡¯re already in the kitchen: olive oil and lemon work, too.) 

Now Almond Oil, $11.99, available at GNC.

View photos
¡ª SPONSORED ¡ª 

Smooth Out Frizz: Silkening Shampoo + Argan Oil Serum
For silky-smooth hair without a heat tool, add a few drops of argan oil to wet strands before you shampoo, instead of after. This pre-treatment softens your hair and helps it better receive the smoothing benefits of your shampoo and conditioner combo. It also cuts down on pesky frizz without adding extra weight at the roots, which is especially great for our fine-haired friends.

Pantene Smooth & Sleek Shampoo, $3.99, available at Pantene; Pantene Seriously Sleek Smooth Serum With Argan Oil, $5.99, available at Pantene.

View photos
Heighten Hydration: Moisturizer + Face Oil
During the winter months, when our skin is super-dry, we love to add a drop of oil to our moisturizer, mix it in our hands, and smooth it over our face. This adds not only a surge in moisture, but a subtle, dewy glow.

Kiehl¡¯s Ultra Facial Cream, $46.50, available atKiehl¡¯s; Josie Maran 100% Pure Argan Oil, $48, available at QVC.

View photos
DIY A Hair Treatment: Conditioner + Water
If you¡¯re looking to give your hair a little extra nourishment, prevent breakage, tame frizz, add moisture, all that good stuff ¡ª you might want to consider a leave-in conditioner. But you don¡¯t have to add another item to your shopping list. Simply get a spray bottle and mix one part conditioner with three parts water (you may need more water if your hair is on the thinner side; less water if it¡¯s thicker). Then, simply shake it up and spritz.

Oribe Gold Lust Repair & Restore Conditioner, $49, available at Birchbox. 

View photos
Add Length To Your Lashes: Mascara + Baby Powder
Even your favorite mascara can get a boost if you simply add a bit of baby powder. Apply your first coat as usual and then take a disposable mascara wand, or just a Q-tip dipped in powder, and dust it on your still-wet lashes so it sticks. Add a final coat or two of mascara until the powder is blended, and you¡¯ll have longer, more dramatic lashes.

Benefit Roller Lash Mascara, $24, available atHSN; Johnson¡¯s Baby Powder, $4.99, available at Target.


View photos
Boost Your Shine: Lip Gloss + Glitter 
Just in time for all those holiday parties, we¡¯ve got a way to majorly amp up your lip-sparkle factor ¡ª ripped straight from the runways. Take any lip gloss you¡¯ve got laying around, and mix in a bit of glitter before you apply. Be careful not to use too much, but if you get just the right ratio you¡¯ll have mega-wattage shine that can stand up to your New Year¡¯s Eve outfit. 

Maybelline Color Elixir Iridescent in Blush Petal, $8.99, available at Ulta.

View photos
Make A Lip Stain: Blush + Vaseline
Your favorite blush doesn¡¯t have to be solely for your cheeks. Mix it with the Vaseline sitting in your medicine cabinet, and apply it to your lips. The result is a gorgeous stain perfect for those matchy-matchy fall looks. 

Becca Mineral Blush, $32, available at Sephora; Vaseline Original Petroleum Jelly, $4.27, available at Walmart.

View photos
Make It Last: Lipstick + Translucent Powder
If you want to make sure your lip color really stays put, add a little translucent powder to the mix. Simply apply your first coat of lipstick, blot with a tissue, add a layer of powder, and another coat of lipstick, and voil¨¤ ¡ª a long-lasting lippie. (Go for a powder that matches your lipstick color for a super-matte effect.) 

NARS Lipstick, $27, available at Sephora; Laura Mercier Translucent Loose Setting Powder, $37, available at Sephora.

By Megan Cahn
