18 Men's Products Every Girl Should Be Using

If you¡¯ve ever snagged a dollop of your father¡¯s shaving cream or a spritz of a guy friend¡¯s cologne, you probably know that just because a product has the word ¡°men¡¯s¡± slapped on the label, doesn¡¯t mean it won¡¯t work its magic on women.

Sure, this may not sound like a novel concept (because it definitely isn¡¯t), but purchasing gender-assigned beauty products has been a longtime norm ¡ª and we¡¯re calling bullshit. 

Given that women¡¯s products are priced higher than men¡¯s (thanks, ¡°pink tax¡±), we think more women should consider men¡¯s products over the flowery, pastel-hued items we¡¯re ¡°supposed¡± to buy. Ahead, we asked some beauty pros which men¡¯s products they love to use. Next time you¡¯re in your local Target, maybe you¡¯ll think twice before glossing over the men¡¯s beauty aisle.

View photos
¡°Not a lot of people know this, but Old Spice started out as a women¡¯s fragrance back in the 1930s. I know. The scent (spicy, obviously, with citrus and vanilla) is so far away from what fragrance marketers want women to buy these days, which is interesting to me. I don¡¯t care one bit about whether a bottle is pink or blue, if it¡¯s "for¡± men or women. All I care about is how it smells, and this one, though it now lives proudly in the bro aisle, has stood the test of time for a reason. It¡¯s good. Plain and simple. The deodorant version is a staple in my medicine cabinet, and plays surprisingly well with most of the fragrances in my rotation. Also, it does its job. And it¡¯s cheap.¡° 
¡ªAnne-Marie Guarnieri, Refinery 29 deputy editor, beauty

Old Spice Classic Deodorant in Original Scent, $2.69, available at Drugstore.com.

View photos
"Even though they¡¯re targeted toward dudes, I keep my shower stocked with Harry¡¯s razors ¡ª I even have a backlog that will last me through a nuclear winter. They give me a majorly close shave.¡± 
¡ªMaria Del Russo, Refinery 29 beauty editor

Harry¡¯s The Truman, $10, available at Harry¡¯s.

View photos
¡°This goes on under makeup beautifully and doubles as a moisturizer and primer. Everyone raves about how soothing it feels.¡± 
¡ªElisa Flowers, professional makeup artist.

Malin + Goetz Vitamin E Face Moisturizer, $46, available at Birchbox.

View photos
¡°My boyfriend keeps running out of this and doesn¡¯t know it¡¯s because I steal globs of it for my slick ponytails. It holds flyaways down without looking crunchy and imparts really nice shine. Sorry, babe.¡± 
¡ªCat Quinn, Refinery29 deputy beauty director

L'Or¨¦al Studio Line Melting Gel, $4.99, available at L'Or¨¦al Paris.

View photos
¡°I have a running jokes that the only fragrances I like are either fit for a grandma or something I¡¯d smell on my future boyfriend. The second I sniffed Avon¡¯s latest men¡¯s cologne, I was hooked. Not only does it have the musky, smoky notes I dig, its top note is ginger, which adds a freshness that I absolutely love.¡± 
¡ªMaria Del Russo

Avon Attraction for Him Eau de Toilette Spray, $30, available at Avon.

View photos
¡°Great, no-frills hair cream that¡¯s good for air-drying. I love that it can be shaped and moved around in the hair. Many women¡¯s products are focused on getting hair into a certain style and then cementing it in place so it doesn¡¯t move. I¡¯m a hair commitment-phobe ¡ª I like to run my fingers through my hair throughout the day and change things up. A little volume zhuzh here, a quick scrunch there, and a last-minute part switch just because. This ensures my hair looks good no matter what I decide to do with it ¡ª and doesn¡¯t leave my hands all sticky after I touch it.¡± 
¡ªMegan McIntyre, Refinery29 beauty director

Boogie¡¯s Smart Hair Paste, $10, available at Dollar Shave Club.

View photos
¡°When my face feels like an oil slick, this stuff cleanses it thoroughly without stripping my skin dry. Sometimes I extend that clean, fresh feeling to the beyond my face and use it as a body wash.¡± 
¡ªCat Quinn

Kiehl¡¯s Facial Fuel Energizing Face Wash, $22, available at Kiehl¡¯s.

View photos
¡°I keep a variety of colors with me in my kit. This product not only hides thinning and balding hair but creates volume after a few shakes. It washes out easily but stays put throughout the day. It¡¯s excellent and truly undetectable. Tip: Apply before putting on makeup or moisturizer. Wipe down your face with damp cloth after use.¡± 
¡ªElisa Flowers

Toppik Hair Building Fibers, $27.99, available at Sally Beauty.

View photos
¡°I love the strong matte finish with playable hold. Plus, it¡¯s not greasy. It¡¯s user-friendly and great on pixies and any short-textured women¡¯s cuts.¡± 
¡ªAllen Ruiz, Aveda global artistic director for hairstyling

Aveda Pure-formance Grooming Clay, $24, available at Aveda.

View photos
¡°This combo takes care of my legs like they¡¯re my face and look kind of retro cool in my shower. Also, I loathe sparkly, pastel, flower-adorned razors.¡± 
¡ªMegan McIntyre

Harry¡¯s Winter Winston Set, $30, available at Harry¡¯s.

By Mi-Anne Chan