Impress Your Holiday Guests With These Easy Winter Cocktails

Hate to cook? No problem. Make one of these delicious mixed drinks instead.

We love the holidays, and playing hostess is one of our favorite parks. But one place where our enthusiasm wanes is in the kitchen. Sweating off a full face of makeup over a pan of gravy or spending the next day scrubbing turkey gizzard out from under your nails does not say ¡°fun¡± to us. Of course, that doesn¡¯t mean the holidays have to be a total party bust.

The solution: a quality cocktail. The cocktail you serve at your next soiree says just as much about you as the of-the-moment stone cocktail rings you stack on your fingers.

To get the scoop on the trends in cocktails for fall and winter (because we wouldn¡¯t dare suggest you whip up something that is so last season) we chatted with Elayne Duff, the New York-based head mixologist for Diageo Wine and Spirits Luxury Devision who divulged the ¡°it¡± flavors of the season. We also scouted out some swoon-worthy (and easy!) cocktail recipes suitable to serve at your giant family holiday party or the intimate dinner with your significant other.

Holiday Punch

A great trick for the hostess who doesn¡¯t want to spend her evening playing bartender? Make a versatile punch. That way, your friends and family can help themselves.

The All-American Punch 
Serves 6 

3 oz Bulleit Rye infused with Lapsang Souchong tea (recipe below) 
2 oz Dickel Whiskey No. 12 
1.5 oz Carpano Antica Vermouth 
1.5 oz Pom fall syrup (recipe below) 
1 oz Aperol 1.5 oz lemon juice 
1.5 oz pomegranate juice 
1.5 oz apple cider 
10 dashes of Angostura bitters

Mix all ingredients together in a punch bowl. Slide in ice block.

Pom Fall Syrup

1 cup of pomegranate juice 
1 cup of sugar 
? cup cloves 
? cup star anise 
3 cinnamon sticks

Cook cloves, anise, and cinnamon sticks into the Pom juice and sugar. Remove from heat and let cool. Strain into a clear glass.

To infuse the Bulleit: Pour the Bulleit into large container, add in 3 tea bags and allow it to steep for 7-10 minutes with Lapsang Souchong tea. Once it achieves the desired taste, remove the tea bags and strain the Bourbon back into the bottle.
