Worst Cars of 2015 in Consumer Reports' Tests

At Consumer Reports, we test cars of all shapes and sizes. We experience everything from high-horsepower supercars to models that we wouldn¡¯t drive even if they were free.

As the year winds down, we have reflected on our Ratings and flagged those models that trailed in our Ratings. These cars are the worst of the worst.

What makes a car so bad that it¡¯s one of the worst cars of 2015? An insufferably noisy cabin. A spine-jolting, kidney-quivering ride. Underwhelming fuel economy. Wobbly and vague handling. Some cars even manage to have all of those downsides. Those vehicles that are clearly deficient in multiple areas earn scores well below the norm for their class.

As you gaze upon the list of the five lowest-scoring new cars in our rankings, it might seem as if we¡¯re picking on small cars. We aren¡¯t. In fact, a few small cars do well in our tests and are recommended, including the Chevrolet Sonic and Honda Fit. But low-budget models tend to struggle in our tests, due to the packaging, noise, and performance shortcomings inherent when trying to meet a low-cost package.

The worst cars of 2015 are true stinkers and have the lowest scores in our tests. Regardless of reliability or owner satisfaction, none scored high enough to earn our recommendation. (Scores are on a scale of 1 to 100.)

To avoid one of the worst cars of 2015 and other subpar vehicles, check all of our tested models.

Toyota Yaris

Base MSRP price range: $14,895-$17,670
Score: 47
Despite a face-lift for 2015, the Yaris remains a slow, noisy, and tinny subcompact with a choppy ride and an awkward driving position. Further, the Yaris remains spartan in an age of increasingly better and more refined subcompacts. This two- or four-door hatchback uses a 1.5-liter, four-cylinder engine that delivers weak acceleration. A five-speed manual transmission is standard; a four-speed automatic is optional. That¡¯s two gears fewer than most of the competition; you need as many ratios as possible when dealing with an engine as wheezy as this one. The Yaris we tested returned 32 mpg overall. All versions have Toyota¡¯s Entune infotainment system, with a 6.1-inch touch screen and phone connectivity. A dealer-installed navigation system is available as an option. If you are set on buying a subcompact from Toyota, the Scion iA might be a better choice.
