New Chevy Malibu Puts New GM To Its Toughest Test

The all-new 2016 Chevrolet Malibu was built to compete. But can it?

The midsize car segment has two long-reigning champions: The Toyota Camry and the Honda Accord. To provide some perspective, the Camry has sold 392,000 units this year, while Toyota¡¯s entire luxury Lexus division has sold 303,000 vehicles. Honda has sold 357,000 Accords through November.

The Malibu hit 183,000 sales for the year through November, enough to be the second-best selling car in GM¡¯s lineup. But it¡¯s only sixth best among midsize sedans; given that performance, the old jingle ¡°baseball, hot dogs, apple pie and¡­¡± could end with ¡°Nissan Altima¡± or ¡°Hyundai Sonata.¡± 

Despite those numbers, General Motors chief executive Mary Barra says this Malibu will be different because of the approach designers and engineers took.

¡°I can¡¯t wait to see how it does,¡± Barra said in an exclusive interview with Yahoo! Autos. ¡°We have worked really hard to understand to make sure we understand the midsize customer.¡±

Addressing deficiencies in previous generation vehicles, such as the cramped second row, and poor fuel economy are some of the boxes Chevrolet must check, but Barra says the company has gone even farther.  The new Malibu, which has a longer wheelbase to fix that second row problem, also comes with a more passionate exterior and an interior filled with technologies customers want, Barra said.

¡°What are (customers) looking for?¡± she asked. ¡°The space requirements, the fuel efficiency, the overall value, the right technology, not just throwing technology on for technology¡¯s sake, but what is the technology that that customer segment is truly going to value.¡±


The teen driver report card in the new Malibu

Barra pointed to Malibu¡¯s teen driver key, which will help parents monitor a teen¡¯s driving. The key will provide parents with a report of the car¡¯s top speed and how many times safety features were activated. Knowing someone will know how they drove could curb some teen driver¡¯s more reckless behavior. 

¡°Generally, (the Malibu) is a family car,¡± Barra said. ¡°That means there¡¯s likely going to be a teen driving it at some point.¡± 

The Malibu is, hands down, the best Malibu every built. It¡¯s sleek looking and has a spacious interior. It was good enough to be named one of three finalists for the North American Car of the Year award, which will be announced in January.

But even Barra says it remains a challenge to get car buyers to put the Malibu on their consideration list. So the carmaker plans to take lessons learned from its launch of the midsize Colorado pickup to help the Malibu.

When that pickup debuted last year, the Colorado had to take on the segment ruling Toyota Tacoma. Chevy introduced an advertising campaign dubbed ¡°shattering perceptions¡± that used real people instead of actors. The campaign¡ªas well as a very nice pickup¡ªhas helped Chevy grab 30 percent of the midsize pickup market. 

¡°We challenged people, not actors, and that got us to get people to look at the product,¡± she said. ¡°Now, we can¡¯t make enough (Colorados).¡±

The Malibu may face an even tougher hill to climb, but Barra appears undeterred by the challenge. 

¡°If you look at the significance of that segment globally,¡± she said, ¡°it¡¯s huge.¡±
