How Do You Keep Your Windshield From Smearing When It Rains? Question of the Day

Those blurry windshields can be dangerous and it is easy to stop windshields from smearing in the rain with just some simple maintenance.
Question: How Can I Keep My Windshield From Smearing in the Rain?

Answer: A clear windshield is one of your best defenses against an accident. When it¡¯s clean and clear you¡¯ll have a much better chance of spotting that pedestrian, motorcyclist, or seeing that car stopping short in front of you.

But no matter how fogless and spot-free your windshield is, you will no doubt find yourself having to drive in the rain. And in this case, the best defense is truly a good offense.

¡°Dirt can gradually build up on windshields, and over time can prevent drivers from seeing clearly,¡± says Tommy Patterson, director of product development and technical services for Glass Doctor. ¡°Cleaning the car¡¯s windshield every couple of weeks only takes a few minutes and is the best way to ensure that it doesn¡¯t smear during rainy weather.¡±

How you clean the glass is just as important as how often. Patterson recommends using a dry towel and an ammonia-free glass cleaner. It¡¯s important to clean both the outside and the inside of the windshield (an often overlooked area).

¡°Ammonia-based cleaners can also cause damage to wipers and the interior components of the vehicle such as plastic and vinyl,¡± says Patterson.

If you want to be a little greener and cleaner you can skip the chemicals altogether when giving your windshield a wash. Apparently, the path to a really clean windshield begins in your grocery store¡¯s produce section.

¡°You just take a raw potato and slice it in half, and then rub the exposed surface of one of the pieces across the outside of your windshield,¡± says Adel Dimitropoulos, co-owner of Angelo¡¯s Performance Plus, a service and repair shop in Rancho Cordova, CA. ¡°While it sounds a little ridiculous, it actually works very well.¡±

Dimitropoulos recommends only doing one or two passes with the potato. Too much wiping will result in a starchy, streaky film. Once you¡¯ve gone over the glass with the potato, allow it to dry and then buff the glass with a cloth. The trick even works on the inside of the windshield to prevent fog from developing during cold weather.

Having a set of good, high-quality wiper blades is the second step in your defense against a smeared, blurry windshield. The blades work by rhythmically clearing water and debris from your windshield, but like anything else on your car they only work if properly maintained.
