Hear The Jaguar XF Jingle Its Bells At German Luxury

In the midsize luxury spot sedan realm, there are two types of cars: the incumbents and the strivers. The incumbents are the obvious choices, the BMW 5-Series, Mercedes-Benz E-Class, probably the Audi A6. The strivers are basically everyone else: Hyundai Genesis, Cadillac CTS and yes, the Jaguar XF. 

Unlike BMW and Benz, Jag doesn¡¯t have decades of experience to draw on. This XF is the second generation, and the previous car¡ªthe Scream-faced S-Type¡ªdated to the Ford ownership years. So this is really New Jag¡¯s first stab at a midsize sport sedan. I¡¯m not sure it¡¯s going to send Audi scrambling for an emergency redesign, but it should definitely woo some new buyers¡ªas long as they get interested enough to take a test drive.

These days, Jaguar feels like Cadillac¡¯s British counterpart. If Jag had a motto, it might be ¡°handling first.¡± And that¡¯s smart, because you can enjoy great steering at 30 mph, but it¡¯s far easier to cram 5,000 horsepower under the hood and draw up a billboard for the new Megasedan 5000. Intangibles are hard to market. 

The XF relies on finesse rather than brute strength. Yes, the supercharged 3.0-liter V-6 (in either 340 horsepower or 380-horse flavors) feels well matched to the car, but a BMW 550i sports a probably underrated 445 horsepower out of a turbo V-8. Then again, the BMW is a big fatso, weighing about 500 pounds more than the Jag, which uses a new aluminum architecture that keeps weight about as low as it can practically get in a car like this (again, shades of Cadillac philosophy). Jag says the XF¡¯s entire body-in-white weighs the same as that of a Fiat 500L. If we look at the 535i as a more direct competitor, the XF S has 80 more horsepower while weighing 187 pounds less. That¡¯s a nice combo.

Up in the mountains around Jerome, Arizona, the XF S was a load of fun, nimble and balanced, the supercharged V-6 surrendering no thrust to the thin air. The brakes are strong, too¡ªthey got hot and indeed smelly, but never faded. But you¡¯ve got to remember that the brakes are working even when you¡¯re running uphill, on account of the brake-based torque vectoring system. They¡¯s better be stout, because they never get much of a rest.

In addition to torque vectoring and optional adaptive surface response (which automatically adapts steering, throttle, and stability control systems to the road conditions) all XFs have the new All-Surface Progress Control, which is like the world¡¯s least-dramatic launch control. If you¡¯re on a slippery surface, you just dial up your speed with the cruise control buttons and the car will gently apply torque to get you moving. It¡¯s proactive¡ªinstead of the traction control sensing slip and cutting power, it tries to avoid breaking traction in the first place. I tested it on patchy ice with a rear-drive S and it worked great. Pair that system with winter tires and there¡¯s probably no practical need for the AWD model unless you live somewhere that regularly gets bumper-level dumps of snow. 

If there¡¯s an aspect of the XF that needs more attention, it¡¯s probably the interior. The car¡¯s cabin is functional enough, but the materials and design will not cause rending of garments over at Audi. Jag¡¯s new in-dash electronic interface, InControl Touch, uses an 8-inch touchscreen flanked by hard buttons.

In terms of usability, it lands somewhere between Cadillac¡¯s smooth-as-a-Ken-doll CUE and the superior scroll wheel systems (Audi, BMW, Mercedes¡­ Mazda) that seem to be the best solution to the infotainment problem. The optional system, InControl Pro, uses a slightly wider screen¡ª10.2 inches¡ªbut, instead of buttons, Jag says ¡°all the functionality has been neatly integrated into the bottom section of the touchscreen.¡± 

That sounds like a nightmare. But I didn¡¯t get to try InControl Pro, so I¡¯ll leave further drastic pronunciations until I do. Thus far, Tesla is the only company that¡¯s done OK with the no-buttons gambit, and that¡¯s because its screen is big enough to display instant relays and ersatz crowd-noise decibel meters at professional sporting events.  

But hey, I¡¯d rather have great steering than great trim. And one of those things is a lot easier to execute than the other. Jaguar¡¯s mastered the hard stuff¡ªweight loss, handling, harmonious powertrain-chassis matrimony. Now it just needs everyone to notice.
