These Are The Top-Selling Vehicles Of 2015

The 2015 Ford Mustang: If it was cool enough for Steve McQueen, it¡¯s cool enough for everybody. It¡¯s the top-selling sports car in the U.S.

Are the best movies the ones with the longest lines? The best Broadway shows the ones that you can¡¯t get a discounted ticket for? The best restaurants the ones where you can¡¯t get a table on a Saturday night?

The truth is that ¡°the best¡± is in the eye of the beholder, and varies from person to person and household to household. Frank Sinatra recorded a song called ¡°Nothing but the Best,¡± in which Ol¡¯ Blue Eyes suggests that a Lincoln is the best ride. With a few weeks of the year left, though, the best-selling cars in the U.S. in the 10 categories we¡¯ve examined are pretty clear based on sales volumes through November.

What does this list tell us about the competitive state of the U.S. auto industry, the buying tastes of the car-buying public and the company that managed to have the No. 1 vehicle in five of the 10 categories?

General Motors GM -2.94% trades positions with Volkswagen and Toyota for global dominance of the auto industry, yet it has no entries in this list of top U.S. sellers. VW has no entries either.

One of the things I notice in looking at a list of top sellers is that while quality ratings from third-party judges like Consumer Reports and J.D. Power are very important to many buyers, the success of some brands and individual models in the face of dreadful quality ratings tells me that many buyers are more swayed by their love of a design, price and brand history (I have always bought Plymouths¡­now what am I going to do¡±, said a friend when that brand shuttered.

The top sellers in the U.S. include Asian, and American makes, and one German brand. Are you one to follow the crowds, or stake out your own counter-trend choice? Are you a mass-market brand buyer, or do you prefer a niche brand? Read on to see how your taste fits with the vehicles that won the popularity contest this year.

Calling the F-Series the top-selling pickup in America is always a little controversial. The Dearborn-based company has the advantage of selling all its trucks under one brand¨CFord¨Cwhile cross-town rival General Motors sells its pickups under two brands¨CChevrolet and GMC. But rules are rules, and Ford is sales king.

The current F-Series sports an innovative weight-saving aluminum structure, a turbo-charged V6 engine in addition to a V8 and diesel option. From the basic F-Series to the luxurious King Ranch and the sporty performance Raptor, the F-Series is America¡¯s darling when it comes to pickups.
