Reports indicate unrest in Buffalo, on field and in front office

Less than a year after hiring Rex Ryan as head coach ¡ª a move that brought a great deal of fanfare to the city and revitalized the franchise's fan base ¡ªreports on Sunday indicate that there's trouble brewing in Buffalo, both on the field and in the front office.


View photo
.Rex Ryan (Getty Images)
Rex Ryan (Getty Images)
On the front office side, Vic Carucci of the Buffalo News reported Sunday that according to a league source, Bills owner Terry Pegula is "accepting outside NFL consultation on what to do about some of the problems that have led to the franchise headed to a 16th consecutive season without a playoff appearance."
Carucci notes that news may not bode well for Buffalo general manager Doug Whaley, who has one year remaining on his contract. A team source told Carucci there would be no discussions on Whaley's status during the season. Further, a league source told Carucci Sunday that Pegula has not decided yet whether he will retain Whaley, who has been with the Bills since 2010 but GM for only 2? years.

Further, Pegula is hearing "plenty of advice" from outside the organization on quarterback EJ Manuel, and the fact that the Bills need to move on from the former first-round pick as their backup quarterback. Carucci reports that Whaley, who was working with Buddy Nix as assistant GM when Manuel was drafted 16th overall, "has been steadfast in not wanting to" part ways with Manuel.

More about the relationship between Whaley and Ryan's coaching staff came from CBS Sports' Jason LaCanfora, who reported that Whaley would like to see 2014 first-round pick Sammy Watkins featured more in the Bills' offense and also have the team move on from offensive coordinator Greg Roman. Roman's offense is built around the ground-and-pound philosophy Ryan favors.

Whaley traded up five spots to get Watkins last year, and the move from No. 9 to No. 4 carried a high price: Whaley sent the ninth pick, Buffalo's first-round pick this year and a 2015 fourth-rounder to Cleveland to get him, so clearly he is invested in seeing Watkins succeed to justify the move.

LaCanfora writes, "The friction between Whaley and the coaching staff is well known throughout the Bills' offices, and Whaley also had clashes with the staff of former coach Doug Marrone. Pegula came very close to hiring Bill Polian to oversee his front office a year ago and has continued to mull options for a football czar to oversee personnel, with his franchise still in transition in his first full season owning the team."

Meanwhile, on the field, some players are upset with Ryan's defensive scheme. The Bills had over 50 sacks in both 2013 and 2014, but with two-plus games to play this season, they have just 19. NFL Network's Ian Rapoport reported that some players miss former defensive coordinator Jim Schwartz.

One of the players who is reportedly unhappy is defensive lineman Mario Williams, "who hasn't been shy about voicing his concerns with the scheme this season," according to Rapoport, who added that it won't be a surprise if Williams does not return to Buffalo next season. There is a "clear, fundamental disconnect" between Ryan and his defensive line and Williams might be at the heart of the trouble.

Williams is in the fourth year of a six-year, $96 million contract.
